gun talk is brought to you by
Springfield Armory
Black Hills ammunition
sakes our
when you get your concealed carry permit
that's really just a license to learn
you still have to get some training Dave
you were talking about the need to
prepare yourself or position yourself
for a confrontation what's that about
basically getting the gun between you
and your potential threats okay one of
the many things that I learned in my 30
years in law enforcement is that no
single ready position will work for all
potential situations okay
however every shooting school I've ever
gone to has always had a signature ready
position they were sure this this all
over absolutely and that's one of the
things that we're talking about you're
talking about with training but is that
getting that solid training will kind of
help you understand when you need to use
a particular position okay give me an
example
okay the classic low ready your guard
position you've got it at home like this
it's basically the eye target line down
about 45-degree angles good this may be
the single best confrontation position
you could use and the reason for that is
I don't think you can be any more
prepared to shoot you're just almost
right there absolutely and if I'm trying
to compel someone to do something the
body language behind this position right
here is pretty definitive you ready
ready
here we go okay that was point eight
zero point eight zero if you take into
account the one-quarter second reaction
response time about a half second okay
unfortunately this position right here
gets heavy pretty fast he ends up
dropping down and this is not ready at
all at that point we go into what we
call a compress compress low ready
position the gun is down but you kind of
fold the elbows in against your torso
the muzzle still oriented down but you
can hold this position for a long time
okay
makes this now I want you to do is bring
it back in do that compress low rep like
yeah here yeah all you need to do is
straighten your elbows okay that was
point eight four okay so a little bit of
delay all right
and then the next position from here
would be a chest running position why
would you use that well this is like for
close confines say I'm getting ready to
go around a corner and I think there's a
potential threat I may want to have that
muzzle leading to the danger
well yeah also if you have it out like
this it goes out ahead of you if
somebody could actually take it away
from a telegraph or a rifle and get it
back I'm gonna bring it back in now
chest ready or what they sometimes call
third eye position here we go okay dead
center hit 0.75 so a little bit faster
all right and the next position would be
what we call high ready and this is
becoming very very popular with many of
the military special mission units why
is that well the idea is that the gun is
in here in this position if you're
moving a lot it's really easy to hold it
stable also it's very very fast because
all you have to do is push the gun out
in front of you drop the front side into
the rear sight take your shot and it's
in your line of sight so you're you're
looking at the target to build this
insert in your line of sight right and
if you're moving very quickly like
saying you're having to almost go at a
run right holding the gun here is just
more stable than trying to hold it down
here like this okay but then last but
not least that high ready position that
site is just below the eye target line
here we go right good hit
that was 0.83 so all in the same
ballpark if you take into account that
the human the blink of a human eye is
generally timed is about two point three
two seconds that all of these are well
within the blink of an eye that is
amazing now choosing which one to use as
a matter of situations what you're into
how do you know well it is situationally
dependent and the only way you're gonna
know is a good solid training coming up
Dave shows Ryan his unique techniques
for Rio d
as well as clearing now function stay
tuned for more gun talk